DEVELOPER.md, before:

# Hacking on Clutz and Gents

## Prerequisites

- Java JDK version 7 or 8
- gradle 3.0
- NodeJS 5 or later, including NPM

## NPM dependencies

Clutz and Gents use some tools that are installed using npm (`clang-format` and
`typescript`, specifically). Run `npm install` in your project folder to
install them.

## Building

Run `gradle assemble` to build, `gradle test` to, well, test.

## IDE setup

Run `gradle eclipse` to generate Eclipse project configuration.

## Tests

You can run the test suite with:

```shell
$ ./gradlew test
```

Pass the environment variable `UPDATE_GOLDENS=y` to update the golden files.

### Running tests from an IDE

The `gradle` configuration makes sure that tests use the locally installed
`clang-format` by setting the system property `gents.clangFormat`, see
`build.gradle`. Make sure to configure your IDE's test runner to pass the same
property for reproducible results.

## Java Formatting

The project verifies that all java source is formatted properly with
(google-java-format)[https://github.com/google/google-java-format]. The
verification happens through `gradle verifyGoogleJavaFormat`.

You can manually reformat the source with `gradle googleJavaFormat`.

Commit message:

Convert testsuites to junit4 parametirized tests.
It allows to easily rerun single test in IDE.

TypeScriptGeneratorMultiTests.java renamed to TypeScriptGeneratorMultiTest.java
TypeScriptGeneratorTests.java renamed to TypeScriptGeneratorTest.java
for some reason git failed to detect it

DEVELOPER.md, after:

# Hacking on Clutz and Gents

## Prerequisites

- Java JDK version 7 or 8
- gradle 3.0
- NodeJS 5 or later, including NPM

## NPM dependencies

Clutz and Gents use some tools that are installed using npm (`clang-format` and
`typescript`, specifically). Run `npm install` in your project folder to
install them.

## Building

Run `gradle assemble` to build, `gradle test` to, well, test.

## IDE setup

Run `gradle eclipse` to generate Eclipse project configuration.

## Tests

You can run the test suite with:

```shell
$ ./gradlew test
```

Pass the environment variable `UPDATE_GOLDENS=y` to update the golden files.

Project contains couple hundreds testcases, usually there is a separate testcase
per .js/.ts input file. In order to run specific test use gradle filter option:

```shell
$ ./gradlew test --test "*aliased_enums*"
```

### Running tests from an IDE

The `gradle` configuration makes sure that tests use the locally installed
`clang-format` by setting the system property `gents.clangFormat`, see
`build.gradle`. Make sure to configure your IDE's test runner to pass the same
property for reproducible results.

To run single testcase of parameterized tests first run all tests from IDE and 
then IDE allows to rerun specific testcase by clicking on its passed/failed 
name. At least IntelliJ Idea supports it.

## Java Formatting

The project verifies that all java source is formatted properly with
(google-java-format)[https://github.com/google/google-java-format]. The
verification happens through `gradle verifyGoogleJavaFormat`.

You can manually reformat the source with `gradle googleJavaFormat`.
